.TH UNCUT 1 "June 16, 2026" "uncut 0.1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
uncut \- standalone console client for the Uncutt Cards API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uncut
.I command
[
.I target
]
[
.I options
]
.br
.B uncut help
[
.I command
]
.br
.B uncut docs
[
.I topic
]
.br
.B uncut man
[
.I topic
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uncut
manages Uncutt wallet and virtual-card operations from a terminal. It is a
standalone Go binary and does not require Go, Node.js, npm, curl, or external
runtime packages.
.PP
There is no compiled default API endpoint. The first login prompts for both an
API key and an API endpoint. Both values are private local configuration.
.SH FIRST RUN
.nf
uncut login
uncut config
uncut balance
uncut bins
uncut cards
.fi
.PP
.B uncut login
prompts for:
.nf
Enter API key:
Enter API endpoint:
.fi
.PP
The values are saved to
.B ~/.config/uncut/config.json
with 0600 permissions.
.SH AUTH COMMANDS
.TP
.B uncut login
Prompt for an API key and API endpoint and save them locally.
.TP
.B uncut logout
Remove saved local credentials.
.TP
.B uncut config
Show config status without printing the full key or endpoint.
.SH WALLET COMMANDS
.TP
.B uncut balance [--raw|--json]
Show wallet balance. With
.B --raw
prints only the numeric balance, for example 84.8.
.TP
.B uncut deposit [--raw|--json]
Show USDT deposit addresses.
.TP
.B uncut wallet [--page N|--all] [--raw|--json]
Show wallet transaction history, newest first.
.SH CARD COMMANDS
.TP
.B uncut bins [--raw|--json]
List available card BINs, supported currencies, and fees.
.TP
.B uncut new BIN_ID --topup AMOUNT [--name NAME] [--currency CODE] [--3ds --phone PHONE] [--wait] [--raw|--json]
Create a new card asynchronously. The initial top-up amount is required and must
be greater than zero. Defaults are a generated card name and USD currency.
.PP
If the BIN is unknown, run:
.nf
uncut new
.fi
.PP
This prints current BINs, fees, defaults, and ready copy-paste create commands.
.TP
.B uncut cards [--reveal|--full] [--raw|--json]
List cards. Without
.B --reveal
full PAN/CVV are hidden.
.TP
.B uncut card CARD_ID [--reveal|--full] [--raw|--json]
Show one card. With
.B --reveal
full PAN/CVV are shown.
.TP
.B uncut topup CARD_ID --amount AMOUNT [--wait] [--raw|--json]
Move wallet funds to a card asynchronously. Positional amount is also accepted:
.nf
uncut topup CARD_ID AMOUNT --wait
.fi
.TP
.B uncut withdraw CARD_ID --amount AMOUNT [--wait] [--raw|--json]
Move card funds back to wallet asynchronously. Positional amount is also
accepted:
.nf
uncut withdraw CARD_ID AMOUNT --wait
.fi
.TP
.B uncut transactions CARD_ID [--page N|--all] [--raw|--json]
Show card transaction history, newest first.
.TP
.B uncut rename CARD_ID NAME [--raw|--json]
Rename a card.
.TP
.B uncut phone CARD_ID --phone PHONE [--raw|--json]
Update the 3DS phone number. Use E.164 format such as +10000000000.
.TP
.B uncut freeze CARD_ID [--raw|--json]
Freeze a card.
.TP
.B uncut unfreeze CARD_ID [--raw|--json]
Unfreeze a card.
.TP
.B uncut delete CARD_ID [--yes] [--raw|--json]
Close a card and refund remaining balance. Without
.B --yes
asks for confirmation.
.SH OPERATION COMMANDS
.TP
.B uncut operation OPERATION_ID [--raw|--json]
Show asynchronous operation status.
.TP
.B uncut wait OPERATION_ID [--interval SECONDS] [--timeout SECONDS] [--raw|--json]
Poll until an operation reaches completed, error, or timeout.
.SH DOCUMENTATION COMMANDS
.TP
.B uncut help
Show a quick built-in manual.
.TP
.B uncut help COMMAND
Show embedded command-specific markdown documentation and examples. For card and
BIN commands, examples include current account ids when available.
.TP
.B uncut docs --list
List embedded markdown documentation topics.
.TP
.B uncut docs TOPIC
Print embedded markdown docs. Topics include readme, methods, errors, and every
command name.
.TP
.B uncut docs all
Print every embedded markdown document.
.TP
.B uncut man [TOPIC]
Print the standalone built-in manual, or a command topic when TOPIC is supplied.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --json
Print raw API JSON instead of formatted text for API commands.
.TP
.B --raw
Print shell-friendly output. Balance prints one number; object and list commands
print tab-separated rows without a header. Use
.B uncut docs COMMAND
to see raw columns.
.TP
.B --reveal, --full
Reveal PAN/CVV for card commands.
.TP
.B --page N
Request a paginated page.
.TP
.B --all
Fetch all paginated pages.
.TP
.B --wait
Wait for asynchronous card creation, top-up, or withdrawal.
.TP
.B --yes
Confirm destructive actions.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show version.
.SH OUTPUT MODES
.B --json
is intended for programs that want API-shaped data.
.PP
.B --raw
is intended for shell scripts. Examples:
.nf
uncut balance --raw
uncut cards --raw
uncut wallet --raw
uncut operation OPERATION_ID --raw
.fi
.PP
Raw list and object commands print tab-separated rows without a header. The
embedded markdown docs list the exact columns.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
uncut login
uncut config
uncut balance
uncut balance --raw
uncut deposit
uncut wallet --page 2
uncut bins
uncut new
uncut new BIN_ID --topup 25 --wait
uncut cards
uncut cards --raw
uncut card CARD_ID
uncut card CARD_ID --reveal
uncut topup CARD_ID --amount 60 --wait
uncut withdraw CARD_ID --amount 20 --wait
uncut transactions CARD_ID
uncut operation OPERATION_ID
uncut wait OPERATION_ID
uncut help topup
uncut docs withdraw
uncut docs errors
uncut man
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B UNCUT_API_KEY
API key. Takes precedence over the local config file.
.TP
.B UNCUT_BASE_URL
API endpoint. Takes precedence over the local config file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/uncut/config.json
Local config file containing the saved API key and endpoint.
.TP
.B $(brew --prefix uncut)/share/doc/uncut
Markdown documentation installed by Homebrew.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
API, network, or runtime error.
.TP
.B 2
CLI usage or preflight error.
.TP
.B 3
Missing API key or endpoint.
.SH SECURITY
API keys, endpoints, PAN, CVV, real card ids, and operation ids are sensitive.
Do not commit local config files or terminal logs containing private data.
